ApexDebug.md, before:

- [First Create a Debug Log with a specified name (TraceFlad Sobject type record)](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_data.htm#cli_reference_force_data_record_create)
ex: 
sfdx force:data:record:create -s DebugLevel -t -v "DeveloperName=From_CLI MasterLabel=From_CLI ApexCode=FINEST ApexProfiling=FINER Callout=DEBUG Database=Debug System=DEBUG Validation=FINE Visualforce=FINEST Workflow=WARN"

or you can do this by going into Salesforce org setup/debug level 

In Terminal run the grep command to see the filtered debug types (-E expression)
sfdx force:apex:log:tail --color | grep -E "SOQL_EXECUTE_BEGIN|SOQL_EXECUTE_END|USER_DEBUG"
please note, while this command is in wait state, then only the filtered logs can be seen 

To specify a particular Color option for different event types.. create a setLogColor.json and then use export command to set the path for param
SFDX_APEX_LOG_COLOR_MAP
ex: export SFDX_APEX_LOG_COLOR_MAP=/Users/sreekanthagorla/Projects/DevTraining/setLogColor.json

- [Get Apex Logs to local](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_apex.htm#cli_reference_force_apex_log_get)
To get multiple debug logs at once (can use relative path or full path )
sfdx force:apex:log:get -d .sfdx/tools/debug/logs -n 10

- [A nice video with a demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g7Rcj04c0qI&ab_channel=SalesforceDevelopers)

Enter Ctrl+C to exit the debug log mode 

- [Apex Log Analyzer is also a very good tool for debug](https://financialforcedev.github.io/debug-log-analyzer/)
    - [Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akL1aEa3lw8)
- [Find and Fix Bugs with Apex Replay Debugger](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/content/learn/projects/find-and-fix-bugs-with-apex-replay-debugger)

Commit message:

Apex debug logs to terminal special notes

ApexDebug.md, after:

- [First Create a Debug Log with a specified name (TraceFlad Sobject type record)](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_data.htm#cli_reference_force_data_record_create)
ex: 
sfdx force:data:record:create -s DebugLevel -t -v "DeveloperName=From_CLI MasterLabel=From_CLI ApexCode=FINEST ApexProfiling=FINER Callout=DEBUG Database=Debug System=DEBUG Validation=FINE Visualforce=FINEST Workflow=WARN"

or you can do this by going into Salesforce org setup/debug level 

NOTE: Make sure you dont have debug logs turned on while you try the above.. if both are running, debug logs wont get written to terminal. You may need to wait until the Apex replay debugger timer is expired and then try above step to set the log. 

In Terminal run the grep command to see the filtered debug types (-E expression)
sfdx force:apex:log:tail --color | grep -E "SOQL_EXECUTE_BEGIN|SOQL_EXECUTE_END|USER_DEBUG"
please note, while this command is in wait state, then only the filtered logs can be seen 

To specify a particular Color option for different event types.. create a setLogColor.json and then use export command to set the path for param
SFDX_APEX_LOG_COLOR_MAP
ex: export SFDX_APEX_LOG_COLOR_MAP=/Users/sreekanthagorla/Projects/DevTraining/setLogColor.json

- [Get Apex Logs to local](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_reference.meta/sfdx_cli_reference/cli_reference_force_apex.htm#cli_reference_force_apex_log_get)
To get multiple debug logs at once (can use relative path or full path )
sfdx force:apex:log:get -d .sfdx/tools/debug/logs -n 10

- [A nice video with a demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g7Rcj04c0qI&ab_channel=SalesforceDevelopers)

Enter Ctrl+C to exit the debug log mode 

- [Apex Log Analyzer is also a very good tool for debug](https://financialforcedev.github.io/debug-log-analyzer/)
    - [Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akL1aEa3lw8)
- [Find and Fix Bugs with Apex Replay Debugger](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/content/learn/projects/find-and-fix-bugs-with-apex-replay-debugger)
